<!DOCTYPE html>
<html>
<head>
<title>Installing the TV antenna: how to get the best signal</title>
</head>
<body>

<h1>Installing the TV antenna: how to get the best signal</h1>
<p>TV antenna installation: how to get the best signal
We often hear the same questions: Why am I not getting a good signal? What should I do to improve the image quality? What are the advantages and disadvantages of installing a television antenna or another? And a long etcetera…

This blog provides you with all the information you need to answer these questions. It does not matter if you are looking for help to install an indoor or outdoor television antenna, in this space all your doubts will be covered. We can even help you enjoy new channels at no cost, thanks to the installation of a digital antenna . When you finish reading this blog, you will have become an expert in installing television antennas.

Location, location, location ...
There are three types of TV antennas to choose from: indoor, loft, or outdoor. They are all installed differently, each with its own pros and cons. We recommend that you choose the television antenna that best suits you depending on your location. Go indoors if you live near a transmitter in an area with a good signal. If you are located in a place where the signal is weak, then choose an outdoor or loft antenna .

Quick guide on how to do it
If time is of the essence, don't waste it and watch our 60-second video on how to install a TV antenna. This guide shows you the simplest and most effective way to install an antenna, including how to do channel tuning (although we will also explain it later in this blog).

Types of Antennas -Pros & Cons
Install an indoor television antenna
This is the easiest way to install a television antenna, since you only have to plug the coaxial cable from the television into the antenna and place it in a nearby place. If the image is still not clear, you can move the antenna near a window. It is best to keep a direct line with the transmitter, so do not obstruct this field by placing metal objects that come between them. If the image is still not perfectly visible, try placing the antenna as high as possible so that you get a better signal and rotate it until the image looks sharp. Always remember that you have to retune the channels every time you reposition the antenna.

Pros and cons of installing an indoor television antenna :

Pros:

Very easy to start up. Just connect the coaxial cable to the television and tune in the channels. Ready!
Low cost and easy to transport if you move.
Cons:

It does not work in areas with a weak signal.
Certain walls in particular can interfere with reception.
Install an outdoor television antenna
Installing an outdoor television antenna requires a little more work. First of all, make sure you meet all the safety requirements as soon as you start installing the antenna, either on the facade or on the roof of your house. Follow the instructions carefully. To help you come up with the best TV antenna placement, take a look at how your neighbors have done it. All antennas should face the transmitter. Check that the image is clear before attaching the antenna. And if you have doubts, don't think about it and hire a professional. For little money you can save yourself some other problems!

Pros and cons of installing an outdoor television antenna:

Pros:

Stronger TV signal and better picture quality.
Works well in areas that are remote from the transmitter.
Cons:

Installation requires a lot more work than an indoor antenna, as you need to fix the antenna on the outside of your home.
You have to connect the antenna to your television with a long coaxial cable and make holes in the wall.
It is more expensive.
Install a loft antenna
Place the antenna on the roof following the instructions in the manual. Before fixing it, check that it is in the position you want. You sure don't want to hit your head every time you enter the loft!   Try different orientations until you get the best reception. A good tip is to buy an antenna that can be used both outdoors and in the loft. <link OFA model> , so if it doesn't work for you you can always put it outside.

Pros and cons of installing a loft antenna :

Pros:

Easier to install than outdoor antennas, you don't need to climb the roof or hang from the facade!
As it is not exposed to the elements, it is better preserved.
Cons:

The signal is usually weaker than an outdoor antenna as the roof gets in the way.
It does not work if the roof or ceiling is metal.
 
Finish the TV antenna installation in three easy steps
Once you have placed the antenna in the correct position, proceed to tune the channels to finish the installation. In three simple steps, you will already be watching your favorite shows with the highest quality and clarity. We explain how:

Step 1:

Press 'MENU' on your remote control (it can be both the remote control of your television and that of your decoder, use the one you use to change the channels).

Step 2:

Select 'SET UP' or 'INSTALL' from the menu. If you can't find the option, look in the instruction manual for specific tuning steps.

Step 3:

Choose ' ANTENNA ', then 'TUNE CHANNELS' or 'CHANNEL SCAN' or 'AUTO TUNE'. Your TV will automatically retune the available channels. The process can take a few minutes. Once completed, all channels will already be tuned. Don't forget to retune every time you move the antenna.

Add an antenna booster
We recommend that you add an antenna or signal amplifier if you see that there is a loss of signal due to the extension of the coaxial cable or the multiplicity of televisions.

Choose a television antenna with a built-in amplifier or an amplifier that is compatible with your antenna. But don't use an amplifier unnecessarily, as misuse can amplify interference and noise. In addition, there is a risk of over-amplification and no image being seen. If used correctly, however, it can greatly improve the viewing experience.

Ready! Enjoy your favorite shows!</p>

</body>
</html> 
